# [1136. Parallel Courses](https://leetcode.com/problems/parallel-courses/)

You are given an integer n, which indicates that there are n courses labeled from 1 to n. You are also given an array relations where relations[i] = [prevCoursei, nextCoursei], representing a prerequisite relationship between course prevCoursei and course nextCoursei: course prevCoursei has to be taken before course nextCoursei.

In one semester, you can take any number of courses as long as you have taken all the prerequisites in the previous semester for the courses you are taking.

Return the minimum number of semesters needed to take all courses. If there is no way to take all the courses, return -1.



## Solution

Acctually this is a **topological sort** problem, we can use BFS or DFS to solve it.

The only situation we will return False is that there is a loop, which just like deadlock.

And we can just start from the courses without any prerequsites.

In a word, here are what we need to do:
* Detect the loop
* Use a data structure to record the number of prerequsites, and if the number is 0, we can start learning this course
* Use hash map to build the relation between current couse and its next courses

### BFS

How to detece the loop? 

For BFS, we can use queue to put next courses without prerequsite, and if the queue is empty, which means we finished all of the courses without prerequsite, and there still have some courses we do not take, which means there must be a loop.

```py
class Solution:
    def minimumSemesters(self, N: int, relations: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        graph = {i: [] for i in range(1, N + 1)}
        for start_node, end_node in relations:
            graph[start_node].append(end_node)
        
        vis = {}
        def dfs(node):
            if node in vis:
                return vis[node]
            else:
                vis[node] = -1
            
            maxLength = 1
            for nextNode in graph[node]:
                length = dfs(nextNode)
                if length == -1:
                    return -1
                else:
                    maxLength = max(length+1, maxLength)
            
            vis[node] = maxLength
            return maxLength
        
        ans = -1
        for node in graph.keys():
            length = dfs(node)
            if length == -1:
                return -1
            else:
                ans = max(ans, length)
        return ans
```


### DFS

Because we just need to get the max semesters we can finish all courses, so we just need to **find the longest path in the graph**.

How to detect a loop?

We use a `status` to record the status of a node: 0 -> not visit; 1 -> visiting; 2 -> already visited.

* If we find the current node's status is 0, we change it to 1, which means we are processing it;
* If we find the current node's status is 1, we find the loop;
* If we find the current node's status is 2, we do not need to continue dfs, we can use its deepth directly (because we have already processed this course, we know how many courses it has after this semester).

```py
```
